.
- Previously on "Colony..."
- A protocol for building a
model colony here in Seattle.
No transitional authority
or IGA presence at all.
- We are here tonight
to welcome
our new local
community patrol captain,
Roger Erikson.
- Thank you, Laura.
It is an honor
to serve all of you,
and ensure your safety.
- Did they tell you
what bus you're in?
- They said D.
- I know I should let it go,
but I felt connected to them.
And I wanna know
that they landed safely.
- Of course they did.
In one of
the public housing blocs.
- I found a crashed crate
in the woods.
I think they're dropping
those from planes.
- Off duty.
- Is that any way
to greet an old friend?
You're a hard man to find,
Mr. Dalton.
♪
- I got him.
Block 23.
♪
[prod buzzes,
electricity crackles]
♪
- Watch him.
Watch him.
- Outlier recaptured.
♪
- I thought I had balls
walking into this colony.
But you...
- Didn't exactly come
in through the main gate.
- A friend left
the door unlocked.
- I'm completely off the grid.
- What's your read
on this place?
- Better than what's outside,
that's for sure.
It's just the LA Colony
in a shinier package.
- I found some eyes-only
IGA documents in LA.
Seattle's a critical asset.
They're working on
something big here,
some kind
of bio-weapon.
- Don't know.
But I've been
surveilling a target
inside the Seattle Initiative.
I'm ready to approach him.
Thought you might
wanna help with that.
- I was guessing
from her new job
that she might
not be receptive.
- Yeah.
Meet my partner.
Then we get to work.
- Attention: Please proceed
to bus loading zone.
- And do you have any family
members living in Seattle?
- Our nephew was attending
Washington when it happened.
But, uh...
- Ms. Dalton.
Ms. Dalton?
- Thank you.
That concludes
the first part of the exam.
Got a minute?
- I went to see the Winslows.
And they weren't
at that apartment.
- I don't know.
Maybe they weren't home.
- No.
No one was there.
The whole building was empty.
Why would you go there?
- Well, because I fought
for months to get the Winslows
placed, and I wanted
to make sure they were okay.
What
Where are we sending people?
- There was a day not long ago
when it was you
on the other side of that desk,
just hoping for
a second chance.
You would have done
anything to be here.
To have a home, a job, a place
for your kids to go to school.
- And I'm grateful
for all of that.
- Then do your job.
You have a lot of open cases.
You should start clearing them.
- Would you like
another cup of tea,
Mr. Snyder?
- I've had more tea
than the Queen.
How much longer
is it going to be?
- I'm sure it will
just be another second.
He's ready for you now.
- Alan Snyder.
Global Authority war hero.
I, uh--
this is a privilege.
- The privilege is all mine,
Mr. Kynes.
I came to study
at the feet of the master.
- You're looking
for a second career
in information
technology?
- I'm afraid my current
responsibilities occupy
too much of my bandwidth
already.
- I'm sure.
- You're an attaché now.
Or
- I'm a man
in need of guidance.
It's no secret that the IGA
is keen to replicate
the success that
you've had in Seattle.
As we speak,
Colonies all over the world
are following
your lead.
I've been personally
overseeing the implementation
of your protocol in Los Angeles
for the last six months.
- With little success,
I'm hearing.
- Los Angeles has been going
through some growing pains.
But that's to be expected
when building out a franchise,
isn't it?
- Mm.
What can I do for you?
- Since there is no IGA
presence in your bloc,
it's impossible to assess
exactly how you implemented
your protocol here.
As you know, there's a large
difference between theory
and practice.
- I have.
Scrupulously.
But I'm more of
a visual learner.
- Oh, you came
for the grand tour.
- I just want the other
Colonies to be
as successful as Seattle.
You know what they say,
A rising tide lifts
all the boats.
- I'm not much of a seaman,
but don't they also say you
shouldn't build a new boat
with old wood?
- I've made
my share of mistakes.
But I try to learn from them.
- That's an admirable trait.
Hey.
We're on the same side.
I would love to take you
behind the curtain.
Personally.
- Amy Leonard.
Will Bowman.
- Ah, the famous friend
from Los Angeles.
I've heard a lot about you.
Amy was with a cell
in San Fernando.
Helped me smuggle survivors
out of the LA bloc
after the Rendition.
She's also the one
who found the workaround
to get me into Seattle.
- Nice place.
You must be useful to them.
- I'm a doctor.
Once they found that out,
they didn't ask
a lot of follow-up questions.
- Good story.
- She's fully vetted.
We have solid intel.
And a target of opportunity.
You wanna hear about it?
- I'm listening.
- We've identified
a couple of black sites
and an asset who has access.
We think he's
some kind of courier,
moving classified materials
from site to site.
He travels in an unmarked SUV,
keeps odd hours.
But I can't pin down his
schedule without a car.
♪
- Let's say hello.
.
- There's our guy.
He's the only one who ever
leaves here with luggage.
He's always met by the same
driver in the same SUV.
♪
- He's making an exchange.
Any idea what
he might be carrying?
- Nope.
♪
- Will.
- Oh.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
I'm just looking for my fare.
I'm with the motor pool.
Look, I'm sorry,
I didn't see you.
My cab is over there.
♪
- It was an accident.
We're late.
- Back to stations.
Stand down.
Back inside.
- It's okay.
[SUV door closes,
engine turns over]
♪
- I just wanted to get
a closer look at his security.
- Hey, Marina.
- Uh, no, not yet,
but the day is young.
I, uh, I'm here
about today's D4 cases.
- Mm-hmm.
I'd like a list
of who's headed there, please.
- I didn't think you were
working buses today.
- I know.
Marcus is running late,
and Michelle asked me
to bring him a copy.
- No problem.
I'll send it to your tablet.
- Thank you--um,
can I get a hard copy,
since you know how I am
with that tablet?
- I'll get it to you
right away.
- Thank you.
- Buses C and D
are now departing
through the south gate.
If you received
your transfer papers,
please report there now.
- Hi.
- Mr. Kynes.
- Hi, everyone.
I just wanted to thank you
for all your hard work.
Michelle, isn't it?
- Yes, sir.
It's good to see you.
- Everyone's doing great.
- I'm glad to hear that.
Well, what do you think, Alan?
- So, this is where it starts.
You're bringing in hundreds
every week?
Eh, thousands recently.
We've seen to it that everyone
west of the Rockies
knows about our Colony.
- Los Angeles
is offering the housing,
the medical care.
- You're not seeing
our numbers.
- The invasion brought
a lot of hardship and misery
to a lot of people.
That along with poor conditions
in--in poorly-run Colonies.
The intake is always
slow at first.
But hope travels fast.
We promise the refugees
what they need and we deliver.
People come here
because this is an oasis.
- So the big secret
is positive press.
Positive enough that people
overlook the fine print.
We've remade Seattle
into the proverbial
"Shining City on the Hill."
- This is now what the other
Colonies should've been.
But your presence here shows me
that at least the IGA
is finally listening.
- How are you feeding
all of these people?
Even with a fraction
of your intake,
Los Angeles
is having ration issues.
- I'm glad you asked.
That's our next stop.
- Productive.
We have enough
of the courier's routine
to start
planning the op.
- Will's Will.
Something on your mind?
- Look, I don't know the guy,
but...I know the look.
I've seen it in every hospital
I've worked in.
Something bad happened
to your friend.
He's not handling it well.
- Seems fine to me.
- Are you sure you wanna
bring him in on this?
- Will's a good operator.
He knows what he's doing.
- All right.
- When our tango makes
his last stop for the day,
you and Will will be
waiting in the cab here.
You'll tail him to the alley.
I'll disable the vehicle,
then you'll use the cab
to make sure
they can't reverse out.
Will's gonna grab the target
while I handle the driver.
You just need to get behind
the wheel of the cab
and be ready to bug out.
Whole thing should
take 30, 40 seconds.
- Sounds easy.
.
Or like, ROTC or something?
- Mm-mm,
just wanted a change of scene.
My friend told me
the benefits are good.
I just hope the physical
requirements aren't too tough.
- Everyone, take
your seats, please.
Thank you.
I'm Captain Roger Erikson.
Team Leader for
the Pioneer Square unit
of the Seattle
Community Patrol.
I'd like to start by thanking
you all for your choice
to serve our city.
Now, here in Seattle
we do things
a little bit differently.
We are peacekeepers.
We are ambassadors.
Being a part of the patrol
is not about
policing your community,
it's about
protecting your community.
Any questions before we start?
Sir.
- Patrol schedules are
issued monthly.
Any request to change your
schedule needs to be cleared
by a supervising officer.
Great, let's begin.
You can open your
start pack to page one.
Follow along.
- One.
Oh.
- You suck at soccer.
- Yeah.
- Do you think
I'm gonna make the team?
- I don't know.
How good are the other kids?
- You're just
supposed to say yes.
- Sorry.
How'd you feel about
maybe playing
for North Shore instead?
- Well...
I'd have to be going
to school up there.
- Uh-huh.
- I don't wanna switch schools.
I started making friends.
- Well, North Shore has
all kinds of cool programs.
Advanced science, math,
computer tech.
Look, you're really smart.
And Seattle's a place where
either you get on the right
track or you get left behind.
I don't want you to end up
delivering groceries.
- Maybe.
Or I may get
an apartment up there.
What girlfriend?
I don't think
we can live together.
Her father's pretty old school.
He'd probably murder me.
- Meadow.
- She's...
normal.
- I mean,
she's other things too.
She's smart like you.
Super funny.
The best part about being
around her is
it's easy to pretend all
the bad stuff never happened.
She's just kind of normal.
No.
- Bram!
- You're the most mature
12-year-old on the planet.
Sometimes I think you
must be like Merlin,
traveling backward
through time.
- Show-off.
- Come on,
let's go.
- All those who have received
preliminary notice
for transfer,
proceed
to the bus loading zone
and wait for your name
to be called.
- Uh, I am.
I'm with a family
that just came through,
and their little boy
left this behind.
Can I just have a minute
to go look for them?
- Sure.
- All those who have received
preliminary notice
for transfer,
proceed
to the bus loading zone
and wait for your name
to be called.
Psst, psst.
Want that?
- Yeah.
- Okay.
Excuse me, sir.
What's your name?
- Don Lewis.
I'm Laura, Mr. Lewis.
- Something wrong
with my application?
- No, not at all.
They just sent me to help.
Can I take that from you?
- Thank you very much.
All right.
♪
- Hello, citizens.
Due to a temporary housing
shortage in Seattle,
you have been selected for
an exciting new opportunity
in the Portland Colony.
You will be among
the first settlers,
which means you will have
priority access
to state of the art housing
and dynamic job opportunities.
Congratulations.
♪
- Right this way.
- Thank you.
- Great.
- Hold my hand, okay.
- Step right up, please.
Step right up.
- I guess this is my stop.
- Thanks for keeping me
company.
Hope Portland's
as good as they say.
- Me too.
- Bye.
- Come with me, please.
- Oh, thank you.
♪
.
- They're lying to us.
- Hundreds of people
come here every day.
Families, children--
- Lower your voice.
- We are offering them
a home in Seattle,
and jobs and safety.
And then we're--we're--we're
packing them onto buses,
and shipping them off
God knows where.
- Our job is
to run the interviews
and process the intakes.
- That's not our problem.
- You knew about this.
- Oh, no, I have no idea
what you're talking about,
because I don't ask
the wrong kinds of questions.
I know how much
you care about the job,
so I'm gonna forget
about this little incident.
But I suggest you take the day,
and, um...
get your head straight.
♪
- Their vehicle is disabled.
We pin them in the alley,
and then?
- We've been over this.
- Humor me.
- Broussard and I
take care of business.
You hang back
and watch for bogeys.
Once we have the target,
I drive him out of there.
I actually might have you
drive depending on
how feisty the target is.
Be over before you know it.
- That.
- Shut off the part of your
brain that knows
how crazy this is.
- It works out or it doesn't.
- You really don't think
about what could happen
if this goes bad?
- No.
- I don't get it.
I only have to worry
about myself,
but you have kids.
- Just do your job.
- How did the organic
vegans of Seattle
feel about their produce
being farmed
by people in hazmat suits?
- Opinions change quickly
when faced with real adversity.
We grew those here in our lab.
They were matured
in a, uh, solution
for just over three hours.
No fields, no dirt,
no sunlight.
- If I didn't know any better,
I'd guess that this is
our Host's technology.
- It is.
- They gave it to me.
- Yes.
- They do now.
- That's it.
For now.
- Can you show me
how you do it?
- Of course.
But there's a two hour
decontamination process
to get into the lab.
We can get you into a suit,
or we could
head over to
the holding facility
if--if you still wanna see it.
- They don't allow vessels
to land on the island
past 8:00.
♪
- Here we go.
- He's leaving.
What're you doing?
We have to go.
- Tell Broussard
we're aborting.
- Out now.
♪
- Get down!
- I don't know.
Will threw me out of
the cab and took off.
- God damn it.
Get the hell out of here.
Now.
.
♪
Watch your step, please.
- Hey, Mom.
- Hey, Bear.
How was your day?
- Fine.
- Yeah.
There's food in the fridge
if you want some.
- I'm going to work.
- It's better than
being a delivery guy.
- We should've
talked about this.
- We don't talk about anything.
- I just want you to be safe.
We need to fit in.
And if I do well at the Patrol,
Gracie can go
to a better school.
Night.
- Night.
- Just be careful.
- I'm fine.
Let's get some dinner.
♪
- That was bullshit.
- You tell me.
Your guy saw something
and just bailed.
- That doesn't sound like Will.
- You're right,
I'm making it up.
- He must've had a good reason
for doing what he did.
- Yeah, he's unstable.
- Look, this isn't
the first op to go south
and it won't
be the last.
But you did what
you were supposed to do.
You improvised.
- I'm not looking
for an "atta-girl."
We could've been killed.
- I'll handle it.
The guys who responded
to the crime scene,
they were pros.
- Not Community Patrol.
- Nope.
From the way
they rolled up,
I don't think they were just
responding to a crime scene.
They were looking
for something.
♪
What the hell is that stuff?
That's not human technology.
- No.
How did that guy
get his hands on it?
♪
Will?
You okay?
You were right
about this Colony.
Something bad is happening.
Did you know that Bram
joined the Community Patrol?
- Good for Bram.
- Please stay.
.
- Hey.
- Wow, you actually went
through with it.
- I heard a rumor that
you like men in uniform.
- Uh--I hope you're not
talking about my dad.
- Wow, this just got weird.
Did you tell your parents?
- My mom knows.
- She said I looked
like the UPS man.
I like her style.
When can I meet them?
- Soon.
- What, are you afraid
they're not gonna like me?
- No, of course not.
It's just,
my family's complicated.
You should meet Gracie though.
- Cool.
- Kynes is exactly
as you described.
Right down to
the galactic size of his ego.
But I do have to admit
that he's running
a smooth operation.
It's like everything
we wanna do in Los Angeles,
and are trying,
except better.
Now, there are plenty of
empty capsules
at the outlier facility,
but he's definitely
meeting his quotas.
Okay.
I'll check in later.
♪
Can you hear me
over the jammer?
Kynes is smart, so I decided
to play it friendly.
But it's even worse
than we thought.
He's in direct communication
with the Hosts.
In fact, they've given him
access to their technology.
Unprecedented access.
I know, but I actually
think that it's, uh--
it's good news.
Kynes claims that our Hosts are
aware of everything
that he's doing.
But he's not that kind of
person just to sit around
and grow mutant cabbages.
Yeah.
He's hiding something.
And I'm gonna find it.
♪
- A new set arrived
this morning.
All admitted through D4.
Go tell our new citizens
the good news.
♪
- Start explaining.
- Walking out on the op.
Hanging us out to dry.
You nearly got us killed.
- I told your girl to abort.
- You knew it was
too late for that.
- I saw Alan Snyder.
- Leaving the same building
as our target.
I followed him to the docks.
He took a boat to
that facility on Blake Island.
The one with
the launch platform.
If he's here
it's for something big.
- What went down
with you and Snyder?
- It doesn't matter.
- It does if you wanna keep
working together.
- Charlie.
What happened to him?
- Say that name again,
I'm gone.
- Fine, go.
Because this isn't
how I do business.
- Yeah, you had a real crack
squad of pros back in LA.
- Look.
You and me working together,
we can get to Snyder.
And the man has no principles.
If you put the screws to him,
he'll tell you
everything he knows.
- When you're done
I'm gonna kill him.